projects.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Projects"
header-img: "img/header.png"
---

## 2013

- **Business Card V2** - After a lot of feedback from the last business card, I have revised my USB mass storage device business card. Upgrades include a headerless programming interface as well as the USB connector built into the board. Boards are in production now, coming soon.

- **Genetic Algorithm For Optimizing A Blackjack Strategy** - Come read about how my computer played billions of hands of blackjack so I could (try to) win money! Working off of my previous experiment with Genetic Algorithms, this project was an experiment in how effective a genetic algorithm would be on a massive optimization problem with 4.562×10^192 unique solutions. As with the PID coefficient solver, the results were good for the amount of time the simulation took.

## 2012

- **Genetic Algorithm to Solve for PID Controller Coefficients** - This project was an experiment to see how genetic algorithms could benefit microcontrollers. In this application, genetic algorithms were used to find the ideal coefficients for a hypothetical PID controller. Results were promising, and I hope to do more experimentation in the future.

- **USB Business Card** - A business card should represent a person’s expertise. My expertise is in creating unique circuit boards, so to celebrate this I created a USB thumb drive circuit that contains my resume and contact information.

- **Reverse Geocache** - My brother got married this Spring, and so I made a reverse geocache puzzle to lock him out of his present. This puzzle
told him how far he was from his present open, and I’m happy to report that his first day with his new wife was spent opening this box.

## 2011

- **Word Clock** - The 2011 Christmas gifts are almost done! There is a production run of 8 gifts being made, but since they have not been given yet, I can give no information except the picture of the boards being fabricated. More details to come!

- [uGrid Home Automation](https://ugrid.wordpress.com/) - This was the 2011 Senior Design project completed by myself, Elliot Stein, and Elie Klein. The WordPress link at the bottom of this page gives the full timeline of the project, but this site will give a more thorough description of the finished product.

- **Valentines Blinky Heart** - This project was for my girlfriend for a special valentine’s day gift with love (and therefore engineering obviously). Works using a 555 timer and purple LEDs. Check out the writeup to build your own!

## 2010

- **Soulbot** was the final project for the Fall 2010 ENG471 class, “Conducting Robots”. Soulbot’s goal was to conduct the TCNJ Orchestra, and it achieved this task by conducting “Ode to Joy” as well as “Sonata no. 1 Movement IV” by Vincent Persichetti on December 7th, 2010. This was a team project, and the complete list of members can be found within.

Commit message:

Add in a bunch of projects.

projects.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Projects"
header-img: "img/header.png"
---

## 2017

- [Moogfest 2017 Synth](https://github.com/smashingboxes/moogfest-2017) - For Moogfest this year, Smashing Boxes put on an event for festival-goers that showcased our recent labs projects. We wanted to give attendees something to leave with, so I set out to design a programmable synthesizer for $20 or less.

## 2016


- [Single Transferable Vote API](http://voting.bcarrigan.com) - Written in Elixir and Elm, this web application provides an API for the Single Transferable Vote algorithm. ([Code](https://github.com/Carrigan/vote-service))

- [Sonic Coin](http://www.bcarrigan.com/sonic-coin/) - Sonic Coin is a software instrument that creates ambient music based on live Bitcoin transactions. ([Code](https://github.com/Carrigan/sonic-coin))

- [Fraqture](https://smashingboxes.com/blog/introducing-fraqture-a-platform-for-uniting-tech-and-art/) - Fraqture is a digital art platform that leverages a screen and 540 LEDs to let artists write algorithms to break off of the screen and into physical space. Fraqture has made appearances at 21C, All Things Open, and NOEW, displaying content and algorithms customized for each event. ([Code](https://github.com/smashingboxes/fraqture))

## 2015

- [Boolchain](https://github.com/Carrigan/boolchain) - Ever dream of hooking up a few hundred digital inputs? Boolchain is a project that lets you chain boolean inputs using shift registers. It can even automatically detect how many links are in the chain and automatically configure based on that.

## 2014

- [Simple Tag-Length-Variable Library](https://github.com/Carrigan/stlv) - When embedded devices communicate, they need to do it efficiently. JSON is not a good candidate because everything must be made into strings, and even a lot of the "efficient" JSON competitors are also slow. TLV is a simple scheme that lets both sides use just integers to express a message, saving processing and message space.

## 2013

- [Gengar Circuit Boards](https://github.com/Carrigan/Gengar) - For Halloween in 2013, I made a set of 10 Gengar circuitboards that blink randomly. These little guys have a pseudo-random number generator and run their program on a chip that has just 64 bytes of RAM.

- **Business Card V2** - After a lot of feedback from the last business card, I have revised my USB mass storage device business card. Upgrades include a headerless programming interface as well as the USB connector built into the board. Boards are in production now, coming soon.

- **Genetic Algorithm For Optimizing A Blackjack Strategy** - Come read about how my computer played billions of hands of blackjack so I could (try to) win money! Working off of my previous experiment with Genetic Algorithms, this project was an experiment in how effective a genetic algorithm would be on a massive optimization problem with 4.562×10^192 unique solutions. As with the PID coefficient solver, the results were good for the amount of time the simulation took.

## 2012

- **Genetic Algorithm to Solve for PID Controller Coefficients** - This project was an experiment to see how genetic algorithms could benefit microcontrollers. In this application, genetic algorithms were used to find the ideal coefficients for a hypothetical PID controller. Results were promising, and I hope to do more experimentation in the future.

- **USB Business Card** - A business card should represent a person’s expertise. My expertise is in creating unique circuit boards, so to celebrate this I created a USB thumb drive circuit that contains my resume and contact information.

- [Reverse Geocache Wedding Gift]({% post_url 2012-01-01-reverse-geocache-project %}) - My brother got married this Spring, and so I made a reverse geocache puzzle to lock him out of his present. This puzzle
told him how far he was from his present open, and I’m happy to report that his first day with his new wife was spent opening this box.

## 2011

- [Word Clock]({% post_url 2011-12-20-word-clock %}) - The 2011 Christmas gifts are almost done! There is a production run of 8 gifts being made, but since they have not been given yet, I can give no information except the picture of the boards being fabricated. More details to come!

- [uGrid Home Automation](https://ugrid.wordpress.com/) - This was the 2011 Senior Design project completed by myself, Elliot Stein, and Elie Klein. The WordPress link at the bottom of this page gives the full timeline of the project, but this site will give a more thorough description of the finished product.

- [Valentines Blinky Heart]({% post_url 2011-01-01-555-based-valentines-heart %}) - This project was for my girlfriend for a special valentine’s day gift with love (and therefore engineering obviously). Works using a 555 timer and purple LEDs. Check out the writeup to build your own!

## 2010

- [Soulbot]({% post_url 2010-01-01-conducting-robot %}) - was the final project for the Fall 2010 ENG471 class, “Conducting Robots”. Soulbot’s goal was to conduct the TCNJ Orchestra, and it achieved this task by conducting “Ode to Joy” as well as “Sonata no. 1 Movement IV” by Vincent Persichetti on December 7th, 2010. This was a team project, and the complete list of members can be found within.
